When we added properties to our Item class we declared them as public.
This means that they're accessible from outside the class.
For example when we create a new object like this we can access the name property like this.
And when we run this code we get the value of the property.
However we can also declare a property as private by using the private keyword instead.
Now when we run this code we get an error saying we can't access a private property.
We don't get an error when we create the object.
So as we can still access the property inside the class itself using the this keyword.
All making a property private does is restrict its access.
When we're working with an object of this class doing this is useful if you have a property that you
want to use internally inside the class but you don't want code using the class to be able to change
its value.
We can restrict the visibility of methods to by default a method is public.
If you don't specify it otherwise.
So these methods that we've already added are public and we can call them on an instance of this class.
Like that.
So that when we run this code the method is executed.
If I change this to a private method by prefixing it with the private keyword.
When we run this cold we get an error message.
As with the variables this only restricts access to methods from outside the class.
We can still call methods from within other methods if we want to.
As I mentioned earlier methods are public by default.
However it's good practice to our way specify the visibility of a method as it makes the code more readable
and that way you are also safe if the default changes at a later stage with a newer version of P HP.